---
layout: post
title: "Continuing development of NetCDF plotting tool"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [python, data analysis]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

###Introduction
As I have been trying to develop a general purpose visualisation tool for use with NetCDF data, I have been torn over the choice of interface for my programs. The basic design idea I came up with almost a year ago now, was a command line tool that takes some options or inputs and can be used to generate two-dimensional contour plots from 2D, 3D or 4D geospatial datasets. The tool should ideally have a clear and lightweight command line syntax as well as being general purpose and powerful. 

<!--more-->

###First attempt
My first attempt was made using the NetCDF4 library for python, but expanding the functionality to include points and not only averages over the non-plotted dimensions turned the program into an overly convoluted mess, that I now struggle to maintain properly. Coupled with a poor design choice for the interface, I'm using command line arguments to give the necessary inputs to the program, my confusion was soon complete. Still, this is the most functional version of the suite at this point.

###Second attempt (xray)
My good friend Ben Laken (link) told me about the xray (link) library for reading and manipulating the kind of data that I'm interested in, so I attempted a rewrite using that. The resulting program turned out to be much shorter and more readable than the old version. Again, the design choices I made for the interface were less than ideal. This time I thought about using a file listing all the operations I wanted, to make batch running simpler, but this led to som weird bugs that I haven't had the time to figure out. As a result, the program is essentially non-functional (read: broken).

###Third attempt
I have recently started on a new rewrite where I will be using command line arguments in the style of command line tools. This can be implemented in a simple way using the argparser library (link)